[WIP] Add reference docs for pod PreStop hooks (#48342)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/reference/lifecycle-events/_index.md

Reviewer: I'm guessing you've used an AI text generator, but I might have guessed wrong.

If you are getting an AI to help you:
- you should declare the copyright implications; most public AI text generator services rely on infringing copyright, whereas as an open source project we don't like doing that

and regardless:
- check your work before you submit it, especially against our [style guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/).

Author: Hey @sftim  It is not AI generated, it is well thought and discussed with mentors where pod lifecycle events are divided into key areas and behaviours and the placeholders you see are to be replaced my log outputs from the respective test that is why I have 2 files presinsertion and post insertion files. You can check check the PR  https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/128624/files#diff-6006f3929c5632cdba80da0724bbf16c898e204339efb20812320ab847303c36

Reviewer: That's fine. Human-written docs are OK.

- You **must** align with our style guide enough that we can accept the documentation.
- You **should** (very nearly **must**) explain in the PR description why we should make this change.

You should also discuss the value of this work with SIG Docs and make sure that the way to intend to manage it can be maintainable. If it doesn't sound maintainable as proposed, we might suggest a different approach.

Author: @sftim Thank so much I am finalising on the documentation, just wanted an initial reviews so that I could iterate and make it perfect according to documentation standards.

Reviewer: This documentation, if we add it, would belong inside https://k8s.io/docs/reference/node/

Author: @sftim This documentation would ideally belong to a new section  https://k8s.io/docs/reference/lifecycle-events which have all possible areas and behaviors documentation for pod lifecycle events. Correct if I am wrong or there is a better way to do so.

Reviewer: > This documentation, if we add it, would belong inside https://k8s.io/docs/reference/node/ or a new section https://k8s.io/docs/reference/pod/

This. https://k8s.io/docs/reference/pod/lifecycle/ or https://k8s.io/docs/reference/pod/lifecycle-events/ would work.

---
title: Pod Lifecycle Events
content_type: reference
weight: 10
---

> # Introduction 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> This document explains the lifecycle phases of a Kubernetes Pod, detailing the different states and management practices applied at each stage. Every Kubernetes Pod follows a structured lifecycle, from creation to termination. The lifecycle begins in the **Pending** phase, where the Pod is scheduled and resources, such as images, are prepared. Once running, the Pod enters the **Running** phase, actively executing containers. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This reference describes the lifecycle phases of a Kubernetes Pod, detailing the different states and nuances of state transitions.
```

> **Lifecycle Hooks**, such as PreStop, allow you to run custom tasks before shutdown. Pods can transition to the **Succeeded** phase if all containers complete successfully, or to the **Failed** phase if errors occur. **Container States** track behaviors like **Waiting**, **Running**, or **Terminated**. Kubernetes applies **Restart Policies** to manage failures and recovery. **Probes**, like Liveness and Readiness, ensure containers are healthy. Pods gracefully shut down during the **Termination** phase, respecting configurable grace periods. Finally, **Garbage Collection** removes old Pods to prevent resource leaks.

Reviewer 2: We should probably just link to https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/ here

## Key Areas of the Pod Lifecycle

The following are essential concepts related to Pod lifecycle management:

> - [Learn more about Lifecycle Hooks](/docs/reference/lifecycle-events/lifecycle_hooks/) for managing tasks during container startup or shutdown.

Reviewer 2: we should be consistent with dashes vs underscores. It looks like dashes are more consistent with other pages.

  - Lifecycle Hooks like PreStop and PostStart allow you to execute commands or run HTTP requests at critical moments in a container’s lifecycle. These hooks ensure proper initialization or graceful termination.
  
- [Explore Probes documentation](/docs/reference/lifecycle-events/probes/) for container health and readiness checks.
  - Kubernetes uses probes to monitor and manage container health and readiness. Probes ensure that containers function correctly and are ready to handle traffic when needed.

> 

Reviewer 2: Remove this? Or maybe comment it out.
